Marshall McLuhan's 1964 book "Understanding Media" is a seminal examination of media in the most abstract sense. The book is most famous for coining the term "the medium is the message." More noteworthy though is McLuhan's anticipation of a "global village," or what can be seen today as a shared world culture(see: all thing Internet). The book examines media's function as an extension of man, first laying out a theory of media's function, and then applying the theory to past examples of media. McLuhan's writing is overwhelmingly packed with theories and conjectures, but unfortunately these ideas are too often tossed in without propper explanation. This pattern or buried leads paradoxically seems simultaneously deep and shallow. It often left me wondering if McLuhan just sprayed enough vague ideas to be guaranteed to get some right. Still, the central points were undeniably prescient and the book is consistenly thought provoking, even if unclear.

McLuhan's central theory is clearly summarized about halfway through the book: "We are confronted here once more with that basic function of media - to store and to expedite information. Plainly, to store is to expedite, since what is stored is also more accessible than what has to be gathered." The term "information" here is used loosely, as it is used as an umbrella to cover a massive array of things from traditional printed text to the earliest human activities. His point though is that media packages up content easing its distribution and proliferation. Different forms of media, or mediums, make this possible for different types of information. This pattern compounds when you realize that mediums often contain other earlier mediums, combining them to make a new form of content. As content becomes more managable through its packaging, it becomes easier to extend its reach; it is no longer a question of what to deliver, that has been contained, the problem is limited to what is needed and how to get it there.

If it sounds confusing, it is, and this is why I found the theory part of the book really frustrating. It felt like vague hand wavings that offered nothing concrete to support its grandiosity. The majority of the book is made up of part two, which is an examination of many examples. While this helped clarify the madness, it also opened up its own unanswered questions.

Tracing a couple examples through is a helpful way to demonstrate how these build on each other, for instance humans communicating information. Human communication began with a rudimentary language; the information contained with gestures and grunts standardized around language, most commonly spoken. Spoken language was then packaged into the reproducible and preservable written word. Written word was then made more accessible with the advent of print, making it not just written, but repeatable. From there repeatability becomes a tool itself that proliferated across many mediums, where like a specific character on a page, it may not hold meaning but taken in context when packaged with more characters form words and ideas. This pattern of repeatbility forms the basis for many new mediums, for instance pixels on a TV which hold no meaning individually but packaged together can contain multitudes. Looking at it now, it seems clear how mediums continued to combine and accelerate information sharing to where we are today, seamlessly distributing the same video all over the world [billions of times](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9bZkp7q19f0).

The brain teaser of it really comes in as McLuhan starts to examine other forms of more abstract mediums. Light for instance is not something I had considered a medium(short of the limited utility of James Turell's work), but McLuhan posits that it is. Making it possible to control its presence, via a stick on fire, a lantern, or an elecric street lamp, the taming of light expanded the range of human activity. Before if you wanted to read or play baseball, you were limited to the hours when the sun was up, and with the invention of reproducibe light, the reach of human activity was greatly expanded. (Where would we be without night reading?)

downfalls?
blending of senses?
counting as an extension of touch?
Annie Hall as a representation of how McLuhan was comically misunderstood, and rightfully so
is raising questions and filling a reader with doubt a bad thing? does it not make the reader more involved?
what gets measured gets managed peter drucker - containerization and metrics... The Box
