---
layout: post
title:  On the Meditative Qualities of a Hangover
date:   2016-01-01 23:10:00
---
I'm no expert on meditation, but I've read a bit about it and try to practice once in a while. I definitely buy into it, but I have trouble setting aside time to meditate. Maybe I'm just stretching the concept, but it occured to me this morning that a hangover reminds me of meditation.

There's nothing quite like the skull splitting migraine that lingers after an exuberant night out. Between two throbbing temples, there is nowhere to hide from the worst of hangovers; no amount of aspirin can save you. It's practically impossible to concentrate on anything, and while there are many homespun remedies to cure a hangover, they all require time.

Unsurprisingly, one thing that you can concentrate on is your hangover; surprisingly, I find this actually helps. It may seem like the last thing you want to think about, but in the moment focusing in on the pain makes it disapear. Like some kind of quantum particle, "watching" a hangover causes it's course to change into something totally different. It shifts from a migraine to a massage, but like the deep tissue kind that sumultaneously hurts and feels good.

I believe this is a common pracitice in meditation. Specifically, if you have an itch while you're meditating, instead of breaking your concentration and reaching for the itch, a helpful practice is to aim your concentration towards the itch. By exploring a sensation like an itch, you can often find that there is no real problem, and the itch dissolves.

While your hangover may not dissolve, I do find that exploring the sensation and watching it to be a helpful coping mechanism. I actually think this is true of a lot of things, like if you are ever in pain when running for instance concentrating on the pain can sometimes be helpful instead of trying to forget about it. One major difference diffrerence is that with a hangover you probably don't have a lot of other distractions to ruin your concentration. Assuming you planned well enough to be able to lie in bed on this particular morning, you won't have all the other stimulus as if you were running, or doing anything else where there is pain to focus on.

The fact that you can't really do much else, and don't want to makes you a captive audience stuck inside your own head. With no better options, concentrating on the pain forces you into a reflective meditative state. You'll start to notice other thoughts go by, and your mind wander away from the pain, at which point it'll be best to nudge your mind back towards the pain. A typical subject of concentration is to follow your breathing, you've just replaced your focus with a hangover.

Some might think I'm glorifying excessive drinking. They would be wrong, I'm just trying to offer some thoughts on coping. Others might think I'm a wimp for lying in bed instead of getting up and handling life with a hangover. They would be right. Regardless, it's New Year's Day and I've already hit my annual hangover quota.
